# Encoding-Techniques
Encoding is required when you want to encode something. For example, suppose you have a particular column that has some strings or characters in it or maybe categories. These strings or rather these categories cannot be given to the machine-learning model  as we know the machine-learning model only accepts numbers. So in a dataset where there are strings, they have to be converted to numbers for the machine-learning model to work effectively. 

Taking you to the net level what am going to do in this notebook, will show us how to convert a particular string or category into a number and explore different techniques to do this. So there are a few techniques; one very generic way of doing it you can use mapping in Python for every particular category. Suppose you have a male or female, you can convert male or female to zero and one and you can embed these categories to a number and that will result in the solution that we can use as an input for the machine learning model.

The second and very way of doing it is you can also use some imputed methods that are given to us by machine learning and pandas. From pandas, we have get_dummies. Get_dummies is a replica of One Hot  Encoding the only difference between one hot encoding and get_dummies is that one hot encoding cannot take categories as input. It requires only numbers so first you have to convert things to numbers then you give it to one hot encoding and then one hot encoding works it to a number. Now it's a little longer process and for implementing one hot encoding we do not implement it directly we have some indirect ways to do it. It is called one-hot encoding because at one time there is only one bit active and that's what makes the name sensible.

Moving further, we also discuss that label encoding is used in a situation we have nominal and ordinal data. Before diving deep let us first discuss the types of a variable. Why is it important to know the types of a variable? Because we have to decide which encoding we should be implementing under which kind of situation.
